
.TH chere 1 "June 2005" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chere \- manage Shell Here context menu items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chere
.RB \-<iuxlrhv>
.RB [ \-lracnmpf12 ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR term ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR shell ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chere
adds the 
.I term
/
.I shell
combination to the folder context menu. This allows you to right click a folder in Windows Explorer and open
.I shell
in that folder.
.PP
Where possible, a login shell will be started. i.e. login scripts (
.B /etc/profile, ~/profile, ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, /etc/csh.login, /etc/zprofile, $ZDOTDIR/.zprofile /etc/zlogin $ZDOTDIR/.zlogin
) are run as appropriate for the shell. This does not apply to cmd, which does not have any login scripts.
.PP
The title of the window is not set. It will default to whatever the terminal sets it to. This can usually be controlled from the shell by passing an escape sequence to the shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\^i
Install
.TP
.B \-\^u
Uninstall
.TP
.B \-\^x
Refresh eXisting context menu items
.TP
.B \-\^l
List currently installed Shell Here
.TP
.B \-\^r
Read all
.B chere
registry entries to stdout
.TP
.B \-\^a
Operation affects all users
.TP
.B \-\^c
Operation affects current user only
.TP
.B \-\^n
Be Nice and provide Control Panel uninstall option (Default)
.TP
.B \-\^m
Minimal, no Control Panel uninstall
.TP
.B \-\^p
Print
.B regtool
commands to stdout rather than running them
.TP
.B \-\^f
Force write (overwrite existing, ignore missing files)
.TP
.B \-\^1
Start shell using registry one-liners. This doesn\'t work with ash, tcsh or network shares.
.TP
.B \-\^2
Start via
.B bash
script. Relies on windows to change directory, and login scripts avoiding doing a cd
.B $HOME 
.TP
.B \-\^h
Help
.TP
.B \-\^v
Version
.PP
Supported terminals:
.B cmd rxvt xterm
.PP
Supported shells:
.B ash bash cmd pdksh tcsh zsh passwd

.SH USAGE
.PP
A command (
.B -iuxlrhv
) must be specified before
.B chere
does anything. All other options modify how these commands work.
.PP
The
.B -i
(install) and
.B -u
(uninstall) commands are mutually exclusive. The
.B -l
and
.B -r
commands may be specified in addition to
.B -i
,
.B -u
or
.B -x
, in which case the read/list is done after the install/uninstall/refresh.

.PP
The context menu may be (un)installed for all users
.B \-\^a
, or just yourself
.B \-\^c.
To (un)install for all users, you will require appropriate access rights. i.e. you need to have Administrator rights.

.PP
If the -i flag is passed without specifying a shell, the shell specified in
.B /etc/passwd
for the current user is added. If
.B term
is not specified,
.B cmd
is used.

.PP
If the
.B -u
flag is passed without specifying a shell, all installed context menus will be uninstalled. If
.B -a
or
.B -c
is also specified, only the context menus for the specified users are uninstalled. Otherwise the context menus are removed for all users and the current user.

.PP
It is not possible to uninstall a context menu for a user who is not the current user.

.PP
The 
.B passwd
shell tries to determine your preferred shell at runtime from your
.B /etc/passwd
entry. This is most useful on multi-user systems.

.PP
By default, registry entries are added so that the context menus can be removed using the Add Remove Programs utility in the Windows Control Panel. The
.B -m
option prevents this. Note that this uninstall option invokes
.B chere.
When installing for the current user,
.B chere
will attempt to set an uninstall entry. If the user does not have appropriate rights to add keys to the HKLM hive, then the uninstall will not be present. Using
.B -m
will avoid the error message.

.PP
The
.B -1
and
.B -2
options select how
.B shell
is started. The original method (
.B -1
) of registry one-liners is succint, but does not work on network shares or with
.B ash
and
.B tcsh.
It also results in an extra
.B sh
process when the
.B passwd
shell is used. These issues should not be present when invoked via
.B xhere
(
.B -2
).
.B xhere
requires your login script to check the environment variable
.B CHERE_INVOKING
, and avoid changing to your
.B HOME
directory if it is present. The login script should unset the variable after it sees it, so that subsequent child logins are unaffected.

.SH DEBUGGING
Several options are present to aid debugging.

.PP
The
.B -p
option will print the
.B regtool
commands to
.B stdout
for inspection instead of executing them.

.PP
The
.B -l
command lists the currently installed shell here context menus.

.PP
The
.B -r
command lists the commands currently in the registry associated with all possible context menus.

.PP
The
.B -f
option forces
.B chere
to overwrite existing commands even if
.I shell
can\'t be found

.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
\&./chere -il -t rxvt -s tcsh
.PP
Install 
.B tcsh,
for all users using
.B rxvt
as the terminal, then list what is installed.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
If you have an old or custom startup script, the shell may not enter the desired directory. The login script modifications described above are provided in the default startup scripts; the cygwin setup program attempts to merge updates in these scripts to your local login scripts, but this may not work. The default startup scripts can be found at:
.PP
.B /etc/defaults/etc/profile
(provided by base-files, used by 
.B ash,
.B bash
and
.B pdksh)
.PP
.B /usr/share/doc/zsh-x.x.x/StartupFiles/zprofile
(provided by zsh)
.PP
.B /usr/share/doc/tcsh/...
(not currently provided)

.SH HINTS
If you are using
.B cmd
as a terminal because you don't want to install
.B X
consider using
.B rxvt
instead.
.PP
If you really do like
.B cmd
you can still use it as a shell in
.B rxvt
or
.B xterm.
.PP
Use 
.B ~/.Xdefaults
to set terminal resources (colour, font etc)
.PP
.B http://biocycle.atmos.colostate.edu/~johnk/Xterm-Title.html
has information on setting up Dynamic titles from various shells

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B CHERE_INVOKING

.SH FILES
.B /etc/passwd /bin/xhere /etc/profile ~/profile ~/.bash_profile ~/.bash_login /etc/csh.login /etc/zprofile $ZDOTDIR/.zprofile /etc/zlogin $ZDOTDIR/.zlogin

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Dave Kilroy <d_inabox@yahoo.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <cygwin@cygwin.com>, following the directions in http://cygwin.com/problems.html. Also attach verbatim output of the command
.I chere -r

.SH COPYRIGHT
This script is in the public domain.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B ash bash pdksh tcsh zsh rxvt xterm regtool
